+++
outputs = ["Reveal"]
weight = 4
+++

{{% section %}}

# Java 10

---

##  Local Variable Type Inference


```java{}

    String message1 = "Good bye, Java 9";

    var message2 = "Hello, Java 10";

```

```java{}

    Map<Integer, String> map = new HashMap<>();

    var idToNameMap = new HashMap<Integer, String>();

```

---

- **Note that this feature is available only for local variables with the initializer.**
  - It cannot be used for member variables, method parameters, return types, etc.
    
  - The initializer is required as without which compiler won't be able to infer the type.
    
---

It is not always a good idea to use a `var`.

```java{}
    
    var result = obj.prcoess();
    
    var x = emp.getProjects.stream()
        .findFirst()
        .map(String::length)
        .orElse(0);

```

---

## Container Awareness

- **JVMs are now aware of being run in a Docker container** and will extract container-specific configuration instead of querying the operating system itself.
  - This applies to data like the number of CPUs and total memory that have been allocated to the container.
    
- This support is only available for Linux-based platforms


---

## copyOf()
(Create Unmodifiable Collections)

- `java.util.List`, `java.util.Map` and `java.util.Set` each got a new static method `copyOf(#collection#)`.
- It returns the unmodifiable copy of the given Collection.

```java{}

    List<Integer> copyList = List.copyOf(someIntList);
    copyList.add(4);

```

- Any attempt to modify such a collection would result in `java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException` runtime exception.

---

## toUnmodifiable###()

- `java.util.stream.Collectors` get additional methods to collect a Stream into an unmodifiable `List`, `Map` or `Set`.


```java{}

  List<Integer> evenList = someIntList.stream()
      .filter(i -> i % 2 == 0)
      .collect(Collectors.toUnmodifiableList());

```

- Any attempt to modify such a collection would result in `java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException` runtime exception.


---

## Time-Based Release Versioning

---

- A new Java release **every six months** starting from this version (Java 10 / 18.3).
  - These are called **feature releases** and are expected to contain at least one significant feature.
  - Support for the feature release will last only for six months, i.e., until next feature release.
  
---

- Long-term support release will be marked as **LTS**.
  - Support for such release will be for **three years**.
  - Java 11 (18.9) will be an LTS release.



---

## More Resources

- [New Features in Java 10](https://www.baeldung.com/java-10-overview)
- [Java 10 Local Variable Type-Inference](https://www.baeldung.com/java-10-local-variable-type-inference)

{{% /section %}}
